README.md, before:

# 🐵 Benji Bananas Web Clone

A faithful web-based recreation of the popular mobile game Benji Bananas, built with vanilla JavaScript and HTML5 Canvas.

## 🎮 Game Overview

Guide Benji the monkey through an endless jungle adventure by swinging from vine to vine! Collect bananas, avoid obstacles, and chase high scores in this physics-based endless runner.

### ✨ Key Features
- **One-button control**: Simple click/tap to grab and release vines
- **Realistic physics**: Custom pendulum-based swinging mechanics
- **Endless gameplay**: Procedurally generated jungle with increasing difficulty
- **Mobile-friendly**: Responsive design optimized for touch devices
- **Cross-browser**: Works on Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and mobile browsers

### 🎯 Inspiration
Based on the original [Benji Bananas mobile game](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMpwHEUgllE) with authentic gameplay mechanics and feel.

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Vanilla JavaScript (ES6+)
- **Rendering**: HTML5 Canvas API
- **Physics**: Custom pendulum simulation
- **Audio**: HTML5 Audio API
- **Deployment**: Vercel
- **Version Control**: GitHub

## 🏗 Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Modern web browser
- Local web server (Live Server extension recommended)
- Git

### Installation
```bash
git clone https://github.com/pochu1215/swing.git
cd swing
# Open index.html with a local server
```

### Development Workflow
1. Follow the step-by-step implementation guide in `DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md`
2. Adhere to development rules in `CURSOR_RULES.md`
3. Test locally before committing
4. Push to `master` for automatic Vercel deployment

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Design Document](./DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md)**: Complete game specifications and implementation guide
- **[Development Rules](./CURSOR_RULES.md)**: Cursor AI IDE setup and development workflow

## 🎯 Implementation Roadmap

- [ ] **Step 1**: HTML structure and basic canvas setup
- [ ] **Step 2**: Player (Benji) movement and physics
- [ ] **Step 3**: Input handling for vine swinging
- [ ] **Step 4**: Procedural jungle generation
- [ ] **Step 5**: Collision detection and scoring
- [ ] **Step 6**: Audio, menus, and polish
- [ ] **Step 7**: Testing and optimization

## 🚀 Deployment

**Live Demo**: [Coming Soon - Vercel URL]

### Deploy Your Own
1. Fork this repository
2. Connect to Vercel
3. Deploy from `master` branch
4. Enjoy automatic deployments on every push!

## 🎮 How to Play

1. **Start**: Click/tap to begin
2. **Swing**: Click/tap to grab the nearest vine
3. **Release**: Release to let go and use momentum
4. **Collect**: Gather bananas for points
5. **Avoid**: Don't hit obstacles or fall to the ground
6. **Score**: See how far you can swing!

## 🔧 Browser Support

- ✅ Chrome 80+
- ✅ Firefox 75+
- ✅ Safari 13+
- ✅ Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome Mobile)

## 📱 Mobile Optimization

- Touch-optimized controls
- Responsive canvas scaling
- Portrait and landscape support
- 60 FPS performance target

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a learning project following the Benji Bananas design specification. See `CURSOR_RULES.md` for development guidelines.

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use this project for learning and experimentation!

## 🙋‍♂️ Author

**pochu1215** - [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/pochu1215)

---

*Built with ❤️ using vanilla JavaScript and the power of simple, effective game design.*

Commit message:

Update deployment from Vercel to GitHub Pages - v2025-01-02-10-30

README.md, after:

# 🐵 Benji Bananas Web Clone

A faithful web-based recreation of the popular mobile game Benji Bananas, built with vanilla JavaScript and HTML5 Canvas.

## 🎮 Game Overview

Guide Benji the monkey through an endless jungle adventure by swinging from vine to vine! Collect bananas, avoid obstacles, and chase high scores in this physics-based endless runner.

### ✨ Key Features
- **One-button control**: Simple click/tap to grab and release vines
- **Realistic physics**: Custom pendulum-based swinging mechanics
- **Endless gameplay**: Procedurally generated jungle with increasing difficulty
- **Mobile-friendly**: Responsive design optimized for touch devices
- **Cross-browser**: Works on Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and mobile browsers

### 🎯 Inspiration
Based on the original [Benji Bananas mobile game](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMpwHEUgllE) with authentic gameplay mechanics and feel.

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Vanilla JavaScript (ES6+)
- **Rendering**: HTML5 Canvas API
- **Physics**: Custom pendulum simulation
- **Audio**: HTML5 Audio API
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages
- **Version Control**: GitHub

## 🏗 Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Modern web browser
- Local web server (Live Server extension recommended)
- Git

### Installation
```bash
git clone https://github.com/pochu1215/swing.git
cd swing
# Open index.html with a local server
```

### Development Workflow
1. Follow the step-by-step implementation guide in `DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md`
2. Adhere to development rules in `CURSOR_RULES.md`
3. Test locally before committing
4. Push to `master` for automatic GitHub Pages deployment

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Design Document](./DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md)**: Complete game specifications and implementation guide
- **[Development Rules](./CURSOR_RULES.md)**: Cursor AI IDE setup and development workflow

## 🎯 Implementation Roadmap

- [ ] **Step 1**: HTML structure and basic canvas setup
- [ ] **Step 2**: Player (Benji) movement and physics
- [ ] **Step 3**: Input handling for vine swinging
- [ ] **Step 4**: Procedural jungle generation
- [ ] **Step 5**: Collision detection and scoring
- [ ] **Step 6**: Audio, menus, and polish
- [ ] **Step 7**: Testing and optimization

## 🚀 Deployment

**Live Demo**: https://pochu1215.github.io/swing/

### Deploy Your Own
1. Fork this repository
2. Go to Settings → Pages in your GitHub repo
3. Set Source to "Deploy from a branch" and select `master`
4. Enjoy automatic deployments on every push!

## 🎮 How to Play

1. **Start**: Click/tap to begin
2. **Swing**: Click/tap to grab the nearest vine
3. **Release**: Release to let go and use momentum
4. **Collect**: Gather bananas for points
5. **Avoid**: Don't hit obstacles or fall to the ground
6. **Score**: See how far you can swing!

## 🔧 Browser Support

- ✅ Chrome 80+
- ✅ Firefox 75+
- ✅ Safari 13+
- ✅ Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome Mobile)

## 📱 Mobile Optimization

- Touch-optimized controls
- Responsive canvas scaling
- Portrait and landscape support
- 60 FPS performance target

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a learning project following the Benji Bananas design specification. See `CURSOR_RULES.md` for development guidelines.

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use this project for learning and experimentation!

## 🙋‍♂️ Author

**pochu1215** - [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/pochu1215)

---

*Built with ❤️ using vanilla JavaScript and the power of simple, effective game design.*
